.TH "SIEVED" "1" "4 July 2009"
.SH NAME
sieved \- Sieve script binary dump tool for the Dovecot secure IMAP server
.SH SYNOPSIS
sieved [\fB-x\fR "\fIextension extension ...\fR"] \fIsieve-binary\fR [\fIout-file\fR]
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \fBsieved\fP command is part of the Pigeonhole Sieve implementation for the Dovecot secure 
IMAP server. Sieve (RFC 5228) is a simple and highly extensible language for filtering 
e-mail messages. It can be implemented for any type of mail access protocol, mail 
architecture and operating system. The language cannot execute external programs and in 
its basic form it does not provide the means to cause infinite loops, making it suitable 
for running securely on mail servers where mail users have no permission run arbitrary programs.
.PP
Using the \fBsieved\fP command, Sieve binaries, which are produced for instance by
\fBsievec\fP(1), can be transformed into a human-readable textual representation. This can 
provide valuable insight in how the Sieve script is executed. This is also particularly useful 
to view corrupt binaries that can result from bugs in the Sieve implementation. This tool is 
intended mainly for development purposes, so normally system administrators and users will not 
need to use this tool.
.PP
The \fIsieve-binary\fR argument specifies the Sieve binary file that needs to be dumped. The
optional \fIout-file\fR argument specifies where the output must be written. If omitted, the
output is written to \fBstdout\fR.
.PP
The format of the output is not explained here in detail, but it should be relatively easy
to understand. The Sieve binaries comprise a set of data blocks, each of which can contain
arbitrary data. For the base language implementation two blocks are used: the first containing
a specification of all required language extensions and the second containing the main Sieve
program. Compiled Sieve programs are represented as flat byte code and therefore the dump of
the main program is a disassembly listing of the interpreter operations. Extensions can define 
new operations and use additional blocks. Therefore, the output of \fBsieved\fP depends greatly
on the language extensions used when compiling the binary. 
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-x\fP "\fIextension extension ...\fP"
Set the available extensions. The parameter is a space-separated list of the active extensions. By
prepending the extension identifiers with \fB+\fP or \fB-\fP, extensions can be included or excluded
relative to the default set of extensions. If no extensions have a \fB+\fP or \fB-\fP prefix, only 
those extensions that are explicitly listed will be enabled. Unknown extensions are ignored and a 
warning is produced. By default, all supported extensions are available, except for deprecated
extensions or those that are still under development.

For example \fB-x\fP "+imapflags -enotify" will enable the deprecated imapflags extension along with all
extensions that are available by default, except for the enotify extension.
.SH AUTHOR
.PP
Pigeonhole for Dovecot was written by Stephan Bosch <stephan@rename-it.nl>.
.PP
Dovecot was written by Timo Sirainen <tss@iki.fi>.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR sievec (1),
.BR sieve-test (1)
.PP
Dovecot website: http://www.dovecot.org
.PP
Pigeonhole website: http://pigeonhole.dovecot.org
