.TH "SIEVE-FILTER" "1" "5 August 2009"
.SH NAME
sieve-filter \- Sieve mailbox filter tool for the Dovecot secure IMAP server
.PP
\fBWARNING: \fRThis tool is not finished and should \fB*NOT*\fR be used, unless you feel like testing newly developed
features! The behavior described in this manual page represents the design and not necessarily what the tool currently implements.

.SH SYNOPSIS
sieve-filter [\fIoptions\fR] \fIscript-file\fR \fIsource-location\fR \fIsource-mailbox\fR [\fIinbox-namespace\fR [\fInamespace\fR ...]]
.TP
\fInamepace\fR = [prefix=]location[;option=value,option=value,...]
.TP
[FIXME: what would be the easiest way to specify a filter operation without always needing to
delve into the complexity of namespaces]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \fBsieve-filter\fP command is part of the Sieve implementation for the Dovecot secure 
IMAP server. Sieve (RFC 5228) is a simple and highly extensible language for filtering 
e-mail messages. It can be implemented for any type of mail access protocol, mail 
architecture and operating system. The language cannot execute external programs and in 
its basic form it does not provide the means to cause infinite loops, making it suitable 
for running securely on mail servers where mail users have no permission run arbitrary programs.
.PP
The Sieve language was originally meant for filtering messages upon delivery. However, there are
occasions when it is desirable to filter messages that are already stored in a mailbox, for
instance when a bug in a Sieve script caused many messages to be delivered incorrectly.
Using the sieve-filter tool it is possible to apply a Sieve script on all messages in a particular
mailbox, making it possible to delete messages, to store them in a different folder and to change
the assigned IMAP flags and keywords. Attempts to send messages to the outside world are ignored by default
for obvious reasons, but, using the proper command line options, it is possible to capture outgoing
mail as well. 
.PP
The command has three mandatory arguments: the \fIscript-file\fP argument, which specifies the path of the
Sieve script, the \fIsource-location\fP argument, which specifies the mail storage of the source mailbox 
(e.g. `maildir:~/Maildir'), and the \fIsoure-mailbox\fP argument, which specifies the name of the source 
mailbox within the specified mail storage (e.g. `INBOX.Spam'). 
.PP
This tool does not (yet) use Dovecot's configuration file to obtain information on namespaces and the
location of mailboxes. Therefore, any used namespaces need to be specified on the command line. These
specifications directly follow the \fIsource-mailbox\fP parameter. The first specified namespace will
be the INBOX namespace.
.PP
If no namespaces are defined on the commandline, the source-location is used as the default mail store
where the INBOX is located. This means that the keep action could operate on the folder the message
originates from. In this case the message remains untouched and it is not duplicated, but IMAP flags and
keywords can be evaluated and changed with the imap4flags extension . If namespaces are defined explicitly, 
the source location is available as a namespace with prefix `#src/'. 
.PP
If no options are specified, the sieve-filter command runs in a simulation mode in which it only 
prints what would be performed, without actually doing anything. Use the \fB-e\fP option to activate
true script execution. Also, the source mailbox is opened read-only by default, so that the source mailbox
remains unchanged. Use the \fB-W\fP to allow changes in the source mailbox. 

.SH CAUTION
Although this is a very useful tool, it can also be very destructive when used improperly. A small 
bug in your Sieve script in combination with the wrong command line options could cause it to 
discard (many) more e-mails than it was supposed to. Therefore, users are advised to read this manual
carefully and to use the simulation mode first to check what the script will do. 
.PP
\fBMAKING A BACKUP IS IMPERATIVE FOR ANY IMPORTANT MAIL!\fP
.PP
By default, it will open the source mailbox in a read-only mode, such that it will not delete any of your
e-mails. However, it can still litter other mailboxes with spurious copies of your e-mails if your
Sieve script decides to do so.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP 
\fB-D\fP \fIsource-action\fP
By default, the sieve-filter command does not delete the messages from the source mailbox. This means that
a copy operation is executed by default and the source mailbox is not altered. The \fIsource-action\fP
parameter of the \fB-D\fP option can take four different values:
.RS 7
.TP 
\fBkeep\fP (default)
Keep messages in source folder. If \fB-W\fR is specified and the source mailbox is the destination of
a keep or fileinto action, flags can be changed by the Sieve script. Messages are never duplicated in the
source mailbox.
.TP 
\fBflag\fP
Flag messages as \\DELETED.
.TP 
\fBmove\fP [\fIfolder\fP]
Move messages to the indicated \fIfolder\fP.
.TP 
\fBexpunge\fP
Expunge messages, meaning that these are removed irreversibly when the tool finishes filtering.
.PP
Note that values other than `keep' have no effect, unless the \fB-W\fP option is specified as well.
.RE
.TP
\fB-e\fP
Turns on execution mode. By default, the sieve-filter command runs in simulation mode in which it 
changes nothing, meaning that no mailbox is altered in any way and no actions are performed. It only
prints what would be done. Using this option the sieve-filter command becomes active and performs the 
requested actions.
.TP
\fB-f\fP \fIenvelope-sender\fP
The envelope sender or return path. This is what Sieve's envelope test will compare to when the 
"from" envelope part is requested. Also, this is where response messages are sent to. 
.TP
\fB-m\fP \fIdefault-mailbox\fP
The mailbox within the default namespace where the keep action stores the message. This is "INBOX"
by default.
.TP
\fB-Q\fP \fImail-command\fP
Send outgoing e-mail through the specified program. By default, the sieve-filter command ignores 
Sieve actions such as redirect, reject, vacation and notify, but using this option outgoing messages
can be fed to the \fBstdin\fP of an external shell command. This option has no effect in simulation
mode, Unless you really know what you are doing, \fBDO NOT USE THIS TO FEED MAIL TO SENDMAIL!\f.
.TP
\fB-r\fP \fIrecipient-address\fP
The envelope recipient address. This is what Sieve's envelope test will compare to when the "to"
envelope part is requested. Some tests and actions will also use this as the owner's e-mail address.
.TP
\fB-S\fP \fIscript-file\fP
Specify additional scripts to be executed before the main script. Multiple \fB-s\fP arguments are
allowed and the specified scripts are executed sequentially in the order specified at the command
line.
.TP
\fB-W\fP
Enables write access to the source mailbox. This allows deleting the messages from the source mailbox
and changing the assigned IMAP flags and keywords. 
.TP
\fB-x\fP "\fIextension extension ...\fP"
Set the available extensions. The parameter is a space-separated list of the active extensions. By
prepending the extension identifiers with \fB+\fP or \fB-\fP, extensions can be included or excluded
relative to the default set of extensions. If no extensions have a \fB+\fP or \fB-\fP prefix, only 
those extensions that are explicitly listed will be enabled. Unknown extensions are ignored and a 
warning is produced. By default, all supported extensions are available, except for deprecated extensions 
or those that are still under development.

For example \fB-x\fP "+imapflags -enotify" will enable the deprecated imapflags extension along with all
extensions that are available by default, except for the enotify extension.

.SH EXAMPLES

.TP
[...]

.SH AUTHOR
.PP
The Sieve implementation for Dovecot was written by Stephan Bosch <stephan@rename-it.nl>.
.PP
Dovecot was written by Timo Sirainen <tss@iki.fi>.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR sievec (1),
.BR sieved (1),
.BR sieve-test (1)

